In order to use react we need to use something called No J.S. no Jesus is a program that allows you
to run javascript on your computer or server.
The official description is no dot.
J.S. is a javascript runtime built on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine.
No dot GSK uses an event driven non blocking Io model that makes it lightweight and efficient.
No dot J.S. is package eco system NPM is the largest eco system of open source libraries in the world
in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to the official no GSK site.
I want you to download the latest version as of this course the latest version is version 10.
If you see a newer version then feel free to use that as well.
You'll also notice that there's an earlier version available for download but that's only for those
who are unable to upgrade for one reason or another.
I've already installed no JSF on my computer so I won't be going through the default installation.
Your installation should just be the default one you do not need to configure any of the settings.
All right so once you've installed no J.S. let's explore what comes with it and how you can use it.
You'll be provided this program called No j us.
It should look something like this.
Initially you may think this is a command prompt or terminal but it isn't.
You can't run commands inside this program.
For example if I were to run the commands less than you'll see I get this error.
This program right here will allow you to run javascript code without having to create a file.
It's a great way to test things out really quick before you get into real or complex projects.
If I were to create a variable named foo and assign its value to 5 then I'll see this message called
undefined.
However this variable line created is now available and I can get the value by simply typing in foo.
Every line of code you write here will be output it onto the console.
I'm going to exit out of this program as he won't be using it throughout this course.
I just wanted to show you this.
As you may want to test things out feel free to play around with it.
The real power of no J.S. is the commands modules and package ecosystem that comes with it.
I want you to open your text editor and pointed to any folder you want.
The great thing about no J.S. is that you can use it anywhere on your system.
You don't have to use it in any particular folder.
That means you can use it in your documents desktop or even windows folder.
I'm going to keep things simple and continue working inside my HP docs folder.
I'm inside a folder called Node dash example next.
I'm going to create a javascript file called index Doc J.S. inside this file.
I'm simply going to console Doc along the message.
Hello then I want you to open your terminal and point it to this directory.
This is very important.
This will not work unless you're inside the same directory as your file.
I'm using Visual Studio code and it automatically points to this folder whenever I open my terminal.
If you're not using Visual Studio code then it's perfectly fine to use the command line that comes with
your operating system.
You may have to use the C D and less commands to help you navigate around.
Once you're inside this directory I then want you to run the following command node index after running
this command you'll see the message being output it onto the console.
So what exactly is going on.
Let's take it one step at a time when you installed no Jess.
You will be provided with a new command called node.
This command allows you to run a javascript file on your computer.
Actually you don't even have to use a javascript file.
Let's just call the node command by itself.
What will happen is that no J.S. will turn your command line into a javascript environment on the spot.
So if I were to type the commands L S then I'll get this error.
This is the same error we got last time.
This is basically the same as opening and using that program we used earlier to exit out of this.
You need to press control C on your keyboard.
The node command allows you to run javascript through the command line to take it a step further.
You don't have to use javascript inside the command line right after the node command.
You can pass in the name of the file that contains your javascript code.
In our case this would be the indexed dot J.S. file.
However you don't have to pass in the dot J.S. file extension as node will automatically assume the
file is a javascript file.
Once you run this command node will run whatever javascript is inside this file.
And this example all we did was output a simple message.
I'm going to move up one directory using the C.D. command.
Then I'm going to try and run the node index command again right away.
I'll get an error saying that the file can't be found.
This is very important to highlight.
I have to be inside the same directory yes this file to use this command properly.
Otherwise I'll just get an error.
If you want to you can just pass in the path and that will work as well.
For example if I type in the following node will and run the file index Dot.
J.S..
However I always recommend to just be in the same directory so you don't have to type as much.
It makes things easier.
I'm going to d back into my directory.
This is just a basic example of what you can do with no J.
Yes you can run javascript on your computer instead of a web browser.
You can do so many things such as work with the file system create a web server or even create your
own commands.
The possibilities are endless for this course.
We won't be doing any of that.
The reason being is that we're already doing this kind of stuffing P HP Apache and my sequel.
We also have WordPress that handles a lot of the logic for us so we don't need to use node for that
kind of stuff.
So why are we using no.
Well no it can also help with organizing code and use advanced features that simply aren't available
in regular browsers.
These tools will also be helpful when developing blocks for Gutenberg.
Before we can do anything else we need to understand how modules work and why they're needed.
There is one last thing I want to highlight.
You don't have to name your file indexed dot J Yes you can name your files whenever you want.
You can name this blue dot jackass and run the command node foo which will run the JavaScript in that
file.
All right let's move onto modules in the next lecture.